So I was on a flight from LA to Chicago a short while ago.
The usual thing happened, at first: I was on the plane early, and watching my fellow passengers get on the plane and go by, finding their seats.
There's that situation that happens on all forms of public transport that you'll all recognize: You're secretly hoping that you'll sit next to a beautiful and interesting woman (or man, depending upon your preferences), but instead, she never shows up.
Instead, that guy (and it's always that same guy isn't it) who's a bit too large for the seat, and who leaks into yours even though he's supposed to be in the seat next to you.
(This happens on buses, trains, planes, whereever Always that same guy).
So, yes, this happened.
Fine, I was used to it.
But then something unexpected happened.
The guy next to him (on the other side) asked him if he d mind swapping seats with his friend in another seat so that they could sit together, and he agreed.
And guess what.
The friend turned out to be a striking young French woman with cute almost elfin features.
This turn around was quite a shock to me.
Anyway, not being one for harrassing people just because they're attractive, I carried on with my business of getting ready for the flight, and then started reading some sheets of paper, which happened to be covered in equations and diagrams.
My usual airplane reading, I must report.
(Often it is the best place to think about research no distractions  no phones, email, blog, students, colleagues etc They're going to spoil that all soon by the way).
Well, anyway, a while into reading, my striking neighbour spoke up with -of course- the perfect French accent to match, and said Er, excuse me, are you a teacher of Mathematics.
I explained that indeed I teach and Mathematics is part of what I teach, alongside Physics etc.
Er, at a University or School.
University.
She brightened up considerably, and explained that she loved Mathematics and Physics and studied them for a while at University.
So at that point I was thinking that the Law of Averages had spectacularly broken down today on two counts .
One: Beautiful and interesting women never end up sitting next to me in such situations;.
Two: People who learn what I do never say that they love it and have studied it, but usually trot out the I was never good at physics/maths at school line .
So having been given license to ask at least two questions in return, I asked where she studied these things.
Paris VI.
And then I asked what her line of work is now.
She wanted to do something different, and so even though she loves physics and mathematics, she decided to leave France and join the circus.
Yes, you read that right.
She is a circus performer.
She is in fact an acrobat.
So Law of Averages breakdown number three: How many times do you actually meet someone who ran away to join the circus.
-cvj PS.
Nope, I did not propose marriage on the spot.
Look, can you imagine the employment two-body problem involved with one person a theoretical physicist and the other a trapeze artist.
Oh, and yes, another reason was her boyfriend sitting on the other side of her.
It was a red-eye flight, so I gave her my cough sweets (she had a cold) and I turned over and went to sleep.
