AMERICAblog has a good post about Target's email response to a complaint that one of their pharmacists has refused to fill a prescription for emergency contraception (EC).
Here's the email from Target.
From: TargetResponse TargetResponse@targetcom.
Date: Oct 20, 2005 7:18 AM.
Subject: Filling Prescriptions at Target.
Dear Target Guest, Target places a high priority on our role as a community pharmacy and our obligation to meet the needs of the patients we serve.
We expect all our team members, including our pharmacists, to provide respectful service to our guests, particularly when it comes to their health care needs.
Like many other retailers, Target has a policy that ensures a guest's prescription for emergency contraception is filled, whether at Target or at a different pharmacy, in a timely and respectful manner.
This policy meets the health care needs of our guests while respecting the diversity of our team members.
Your thoughts help us learn more about what our guests expect, so I'll be sure to share your feedback with our pharmacy executives.
Thanks for taking the time to share your questions, thoughts and comments.
I hope we'll see you again soon at Target.
Sincerely, Jennifer HansonTarget Executive Offices.
I've written before about this kind of nonsense.
My Orange Quark post began.
A pharmacist in California refuses to fill the prescriptions of AIDS sufferers, because that would be interfering with God's plans for gays.
Another pharmacist, in Michigan, won't provide arthritis medication, because gnarled hands are God's way of stopping masturbation.
A third pharmacist, in Florida, refuses to fill Viagra prescriptions, because, after their child-bearing years are over, God does not intend women to have to put up with the advances of their wrinkly old husbands.
whereas AMERICAblog has their own examples of equally ridiculous possibilities that would seem to be consistent with paying pharmacists not to do their jobs.
It's just a gut feeling, but I would guess that there are many more readers of this blog who might occasionally shop at Target than at, say, Walmart (Don't ask me why - maybe it's the Michael Graves collection - I don't know).
If so, then this is a real opportunity to make a difference.
If you get a chance, follow the advice at AMERICAblog, and call Target's press office at one of these numbers.
Susan Kahn, 1-612-761-6735Cathy Wright, 1-612-761-6627 or 1-847-615-1538Paula Thornton-Greear, 612-696-3400Carolyn Brookter, 1-612-696-6557.
Instead, or in addition, you could call or write to your local Target and tell them how you feel about this.
We really need to stand up against this insanity.
I'm going to make my calls tomorrow.
Perhaps I'll do it instead of teaching.
After all, just because I'm paid to teach doesn't mean I should be forced to do it.
