I've been keeping quiet on this topic, or at least mentioning it only in hushed tones to those close to me who are in the know.
But I can't stay silent any longer.
My home town soccer team - Wigan Athletic - which only became a real professional team when I was ten or so, are currently second in the Premier League and less than two games behind leaders Chelsea.
As described on premierleaguecom Wigan Athletic are in the Premiership for the first time in their history, having made a remarkable rise in the last decade under owner and chairman Dave Whelan.
While Manchester United were winning the inaugural competition in 1993, Wigan were being relegated to the new Third Division, and the following year they finished 19th, their lowest ever league position.
But everything changed when JJB Sports supremo Whelan took over in 1995.
The former Blackburn Rovers player immediately signalled his intent by signing the so-called Three Amigos - Isidro Diaz, Jesus Seba and Roberto Martinez.
Under former Norwich City manager John Deehan they won promotion to the Second Division in 1997, clinching the title on goals scored from Fulham, and in 1999 they left Springfield Park for their impressive new home, the JJB Stadium.
A dramatic play-off final defeat followed the next season, as Gillingham scored twice in the final seven minutes to snatch a 3-2 win.
In 2001, goalkeeper Roy Carroll signed for Manchester United and manager Steve Bruce left to join Crystal Palace after just six weeks in charge.
Former player Paul Jewell was installed as his replacement.
Nathan Ellington joined from Bristol Rovers for a club record fee in 2002, and Wigan stormed to the Second Division title in 2003 by 14 points, amassing 100 points in the process.
After just missing out on the play-offs in 2004, Wigan completed their astonishing climb to the top flight in 2005, securing promotion from the Championship with a 3-1 win over Reading in the final game.
Strike duo Ellington and Jason Roberts, who were both named in the Championship Team of the Season, scored 45 goals between them as the Latics finished second behind Sunderland.
You don't have to take my word about their recent success.
Here's the current league table.
I must say; I'm truly amazed by this start to the season.
I thought I d comment now, since upcoming fixtures are against Arsenal, Spurs, Newcastle, Liverpool and Manchester United, and could lead to something of a correction to the above table.
I grew up as a Liverpool fan, but went to watch Wigan play several times after they made it into the fourth division.
I have no option but to support them now though, even when they play Liverpool at Anfield on December 3rd.
