I've always had a soft spot for Sussex University.
When I was an undergraduate and a beginning cosmologist at Cambridge, Sussex had (and continues to have) one of the country's best cosmology groups, and its members would always give some of the most interesting talks at the UK Cosmology Meetings.
As a graduate student, postdoc and faculty member in the US, I have had a great time visiting Sussex and I have been involved in successful collaborations with several people there.
Furthermore, my last PhD student is now a postdoc there.
I have therefore followed with interest the plans to close its Nobel Prize winner-producing and 5-ranked (almost the top grade in the UK) chemistry department.
It is unthinkable to me that an excellent university like Sussex could contemplate running without a chemistry department, but this is precisely what was proposed by the vice-chancellor.
I don't see how one can claim to have a proper science curriculum, or claim to be an institution that takes science seriously while casting aside one of the pillars of modern scientific knowledge.
So I am delighted to read in The Guardian that a final decision has been made to keep Sussex chemistry, and in fact to strengthen it.
At an extraordinary university council meeting today, members voted to adopt a recommendation from the vice-chancellor, Alasdair Smith, which will see the respected chemistry department retained and expanded to include biochemistry.
Prof Smith had wanted to scrap chemistry and merge it with biology, but his proposal was widely condemned by academics, the Royal Society and the House of Commons science and technology select committee.
The professor maintained that dwindling student numbers had made the chemistry department unviable in its present form, but the head of chemistry, Gerry Lawless, and the Commons committee, which held an emergency hearing into the university's plans, rejected Prof Smith's claims.
The article contains the scraps of what must have been some fairly furious academic infighting, with interesting doublespeak like.
Earlier this month, the Commons committee described the proposal to close the department as seriously flawed and said the decision was handled particularly ineptly .
The committee's highly critical report also accused the Sussex vice-chancellor of failing to make any attempt to save chemistry.
juxtaposed with.
Prof Smith, said: I have always made clear that I hoped the outcome of the process will be to secure a strong future for chemistry at Sussex, as part of the range of excellent academic activities in our school of life sciences.
But whatever the history, this seems like an excellent outcome for a good institution.
Congratulations Sussex.
