Well, I found a new job, moved across the country, and got engaged.
What did you do this year.
(On the other hand, I finished an anomalously low number of actual research papers.
That should change in 2007, as I'm settled down and back in a groove).
One of the nice things about 2006 (broadly construed) was that I got to meet a lot of people in person whom I had first come to know through their bloggy internet manifestations.
So I thought I would share with you the inside scoop on some of the personas behind the web pages.
PZ Myers of Pharyngula I was expecting a mild-mannered Midwestern biology professor, and here it turns out he's a fire-breathing atheist Who knew.
Melissa McEwan of Shakespeare's Sister from the blog you d think she was a kind soul with a soft spot for Al Gore and a mysterious ability to inspire talented individualists into productive group action.
Right you are.
Rob Knop of Galactic Interactions rumored to ride a unicycle into work.
Rumors are always true.
He totally should have won.
Bitch PhD of the eponymous pseudonymous blog red-haired, beautiful, juggles multiple men while raising precocious child.
And has a PhD.
You are right to be afraid.
Chris Mooney of The Intersection young, intense, focused on saving the world.
Thank goodness somebody is.
Eszter Hargittai of Crooked Timber much taller in real life than on the internet.
Has been known to put orange juice in the microwave oven.
Dan Drezner of the eponymous blog like me, booted out of the UofC under inexplicable circumstances.
Understands what it's like to be written about in major news media for reasons other than the reasons you d really like to be written about.
Jennifer Ouellette of Cocktail Party Physics she seems nice.
Lindsay Beyerstein of Majikthise shorter in real life than on the internet.
Of course, on the internet she is a towering figure, far beyond what seems appropriate in one so young.
Michael B rub of the eponymous blog who knows.
He speaks in a rapid stream of French and Latin puns.
But I have the vague impression that he is as engaging and impressive in person as you might surmise from the virtual persona.
And here, in traditional year-ending list-making style, are some of my favorite posts from the year past.
Feel free to mention your own, in the unlikely event that I've missed something really good.
And my lazy good-for-nothing co-bloggers are welcome to choose their own.
Is This a Date.
Quantum Interrogation.
Everything I Know About the Universe I Did Not Learn From Newspaper Headlines.
The Wrongness Singularity.
People Fusion.
The Universe is Structured Like a Language.
Feminism: Destroying the Planet.
The String Theory Backlash.
Summer School.
Boltzmann's Anthropic Brain.
Lessons From Monopoly.
Rapped on the Head by Creationists.
Liquid.
Dark Matter Exists.
The Trouble With Physics.
The God Conundrum.
You'll notice that I couldn't limit myself to the traditional just one per month.
Count yourselves lucky that I resisted the temptation to list them all.
Here's to a joyous and interconnected 2007.
