Ok.
You are probably tired of me enthusing about how so many things in LA are just great.
(Well, those things I say are true, it is great, blah, blah, blah).
However, sometimes things are just annoying in that if we all agreed to fix this it would easily not be this way sort of way.
Here's one such example:.
Tuesday night I went with two friends, Carol and Ilaria, to see an excellent group called Brazilliando play at Vitello's in Studio City.
It was a reminder of one of the frustrating aspects of LA nightlife.
Basically, it was raining a bit outside, and combined with the fact that it was after 9:30pm, this just wiped out the audience.
People don't stay out very late much here especially during the work week (there are several nightspots, some of which I've mentioned in previous posts, which are exceptions to this rule, but not nearly as many as you would imagine for a city this size) even when the weather is fine, and when you combine that with a slight chill in the air, or a bit of moisture on the road, people just scamper off to their homes.
So we turned up there to catch the second set and maybe hang out for maybe an hour and a half.
The people at the font desk looked at us like we were nuts as we came in so late (9:30pm), and were not even sure if there was anything going on upstairs (the performance space is above the main restaurant floor).
They let us go up anyway .
The band was beginning to pack up, and there was nobody -absolutely nobody- in the room (upstairs at the back).
Just lots of empty tables with solitary candles.
It was 9:35pm.
Carol knew the percussionist (Ami Molinelli), and so after fond greetings and introductions all around, they agreed to play a bit more.
Just for us.
We sat at a table and tried to order food.
Nope, kitchen closed early.
At 9:45pm.
(After Ilaria pressed a bit, they agreed to go and see if they could find a salad and some bread, which did materialize).
The bar was eventually convinced to produce me a gin and tonic, and we settled down for a personal performance.
I tried to put out of my mind my memories of struggling through the snow to get to various Jazz clubs in New York and finding it pleasantly packed with other intrepid music-seekers willing to brave the weather.
(Wonderful freezing cold snowbound trips up from Princeton to the Village Vanguard spring to mind ).
I tried to put out of my mind memories of listening to excellent performances into the wee hours of the morning in any number of jazz clubs .
What on earth is wrong with these soft Los Angelenos.
Sigh.
They ended up playing for us for at least 45 minutes, and they were really great.
If you're in town looking for a sweet, understated, swinging, small (Samba, Bossa Nova  Brazillian flavoured) Jazz group, look out for Brazilliando, with Robert Kyle (Saxophones, flute), Kleber Jorge, (vocals, guitar) and Amy Molinelli (percussion really making the whole thing swing).
See Kyle's website for dates.
[Update:.
That night we had Mitchell Long on guitar and vocals, by the way, (see photo) and you can look at his website here].
-cvj.
