Back in March we had a guest post by Anthony Aguirre about the Foundational Questions Institute, a new effort to support research at the foundations of physics and cosmology, particularly new frontiers and innovative ideas integral to a deep understanding of reality, but unlikely to be supported by conventional funding sources.
Today the FQXi (that's the official acronym, sorry) announced their first round of grant awardees.
It's a very good list, and Anthony and Max Tegmark are to be congratulated for funding some very interesting science.
If anything, I could see almost all of these proposals receiving money from the NSF or DOE or NASA, although perhaps it might have been more difficult.
We see well-known string theorists (for example Steve Giddings, Brian Greene, Eva Silverstein), early-universe cosmologists (Richard Easther, Alex Vilenkin), late-universe astrophysicists (Fred Adams, Avi Loeb), general relativists (Justin Khoury, Ken Olum), loop-quantizers (Olaf Dreyer, Fotini Markopoulou), respectable physicists taking the opportunity to be a little more speculative than usual (Louis Crane, Janna Levin), and even some experimentalists working on the foundations of quantum mechanics (Markus Aspelmeyer, former guest-poster Paul Kwiat), as well as a bunch of others.
Nothing in there about finding God by doing theoretical physics.
Which might have been a non-trivial worry, since currently the sole source of funding for FQXi is the John Templeton Foundation.
The Templeton Foundation was set up to encourage a fresh appreciation of the critical importance for all peoples and cultures of the moral and spiritual dimensions of life, and in particular has worked to promote a reconciliation between science and religion.
I am not a big fan of such reconciliation, in the sense that I think it is completely and woefully misguided.
This has led me in the past to decline to participate in Templeton-sponsored activities, and the close connection between Templeton and FQXi was enough to dissuade me from applying for money from them myself.
Gareth Cook has written a nice article in the Boston Globe about FQXi and the grant program, in which I am quoted as saying that bringing science and religion together is a bad thing.
Absolutely accurate, but the space constraints of a newspaper article make it hard to convey much subtlety.
The FQXi folks have stated definitively that their own mission is certainly not to reconcile science and religion; in case of doubt, they've put it succinctly in their FAQ: I've read that a goal of JTF [John Templeton Foundation] is to reconcile science and religion.
Is this part of the FQXi mission No.
Indeed, they've been quite clear that the Templeton Foundation has just given them a pot of money and been otherwise hands-off, which is good news.
And that they would like to get additional sources of funding.
My own current worry which is extremely mild, to be clear is that the publicity generated by FQXi's activities will be good for Templeton's larger purpose, to which I am opposed.
But at the moment the focus should be on recognizing Max and Anthony and their friends for steering a substantial amount of money to some very interesting research.
If they succeed at getting additional sources of funding, I may even apply myself one day.
Update:.
More quotes in this piece from Inside Higher Ed.
